bhubaneswar
description
bhubaneswar, the capital of odisha, is one of the most ancient cities in india. with several popular temples dominating its skyline, bhubaneswar is widely considered to be the seat of tribhubaneswar or lord lingaraj, an incarnation of lord shiva, and is an important hindu pilgrimage centre.
in 1956, the capital of odisha was shifted to bhubaneswar from cuttack. its original name is believed to be ekamra. this can be proven by the numerous mythological references and epigraphic sources that describe the region as ekamra kshetra and saiva pitha. evidence of this is found in the many temples located in and around the old town area, which is said to have once housed about 2,000 temples. kalinga-style architecture along with buddhist and jain structures gloriously intermingle here, bearing testimony to its diverse historical and cultural heritage. along with puri and konark, bhubaneswar completes an important tourist triangle in the eastern part of india.
apart from this, the city is dotted with verdant parks, gardens and water bodies that make for tranquil getaways. it is noted for indigenous crafts like silver filigree, pattachitra paintings, appliqué work and metal work. the city’s culinary delights span from seafood to the most delectable vegetarian fare. shopping opportunities are aplenty with myriad bazaars and malls speckled across the cityscape.
several melas or fairs are organised in the city throughout the year. all of them are great ways to imbibe the local flavour of the region. since it is located on the mahanadi delta, bhubaneswar is surrounded by a diverse terrain comprising river basins, forests and wetlands, giving travellers plenty of opportunities to enjoy the varied flora and fauna that call the region home.
today, bhubaneswar is a modern and industrial city. it comfortably straddles the old and the new, and gives visitors a chance to enjoy the best of both worlds. several large companies have set up their offices here. a number of hotel chains, budget hotels, guesthouses and lodges offer accommodation facilities across the city, truly making it a tourist-friendly destination in the eastern part of india.
