delhi
heritage
humayun's tomb
surrounded by neatly manicured lawns, the massive humayun’s tomb is a spectacular monument that was the first garden mausoleum built in the indian subcontinent. the first of the grand tombs synonymous with mughal architecture, this monument narrates a timeless saga of love and longing. built by mughal emperor humayun's first wife, empress haji begum, in her husband's memory, the tomb houses the graves of both the emperor and his wife and stands as a testament to their eternal love. designed by persian architect mirak mirza ghiyas, the imposing building invites tourists from all corners of the world. as you enter the lush palm-lined lawns, you are welcomed by a beautiful fountain, which makes a great photography backdrop. the garden is further divided into four main sections by walkways and water channels; the design synonymous with the paradise garden mentioned in the holy book of islam, the quran.  the four main sections are sub-divided into 36 parts. one needs to walk through majestic gates to reach the monument. right before the last and final gate, a viewing gallery has been set up by the archaeological survey of india (asi) that displays old pictures of the monument that reflect its grandeur. the main building is made of red sandstone while the tomb is made of white and black marble. an attractive gate leads you to the central hall, which houses the tomb of humayun. the hall is adorned with intricately carved windows and a beautifully designed ceiling. the large platform is dotted with several tombs, including those of empress haji begum and prince darah shikoh. an interesting fact about the monument is that it also houses the tomb of humayun's favourite barber. the monument was used by the last mughal emperor bahadur shah zafar as a refuge before the british captured and exiled him in 1857. to the right of the complex is the tomb of isa khan, a noble at the court of sher shah suri. it depicts lodi-era architecture and was constructed in the 16th century. the humayun's tomb lies very close to another popular attraction of delhi, hazrat nizamuddin dargah, a shrine built over the grave of the 14th century sufi saint nizamuddin auliya.
