mathura-vrindavan 
gokul 
situated 10 km from mathura, this pastoral village is said to be where lord krishna was brought up by his foster mother, yashoda, in total secrecy. it is situated on the banks of river yamuna and is quite crowded during the festivals of krishna janmashtami and nandotsav. steeped in legends and a colourful history, gokul holds a special significance for the devotees of lord krishna, who flock to the many temples and ghats during this time. the town is also associated with sant vallabhacharyaji, who lived here for some time. 
there are two reservoirs in this town called radha kund and shyam kund. it is believed that lord krishna killed bull demon artisa, an act considered a sin; in penance, radharani and his gopis asked lord krishna to take a dip in the holy river. thereafter, the lord struck the ground with his heel and the kund was filled with all the holy rivers. later, this kund came to be known as shyam kund. it is said that radharani and her friends had dug out another kund with their bangles that came to be known as radha kund. the annual ahoi ashtami fair is celebrated here during the months of october and november and sees hundreds of footfalls. 
there are several other sites of interest in gokul, including the temples of dauji, raja thakur, yogmaya, gopal lalji, gokul nath, and morwala. make your way to the lovely thakurani ghat, where sant vallabhacharyaji used to pray to yamuna maharani. this place is quite popular among the followers of lord vishnu, especially those of the vallabha sect. next, head to the stately nanda bhavan, credited to divine architect, vishwakarma, and said to be the house of nanda, krishna’s foster father. legend says that lord krishna and his brother lord balaram were raised in this house. 
another legend talks about how revered saint, swami gyandasji, devoted 12 years praying to lord krishna, who then appeared before him. rangbihariji temple was thus established on raman reti, the sand on which the lord played as a child. the idol of the temple is the exact image described by the saint. 
