kanchipuram
art-and-crafts
kanjeevaram sarees
synonymous with style, sophistication and grace, kanjeevaram sarees have been an integral part of the wardrobe of south indian women for centuries. mostly worn during weddings and festivals, they not only look rich and beautiful but also hold traditional importance. the distinct feature of these sarees is the excessive use of real gold zari threads. its lustre and luxurious drape make it a premium choice among shoppers. the sarees are crafted with superior-quality silk, and most of them are woven with heavy-plied mulberry silk yarn, to increase their weight and ensure durability. this also adds to the saree’s shine and life, making it a family heirloom in most south indian homes. the use of heavy silk ensures that the saree drapes better, making the wearer look graceful. to increase the fabric’s thickness, sometimes the yarn is dipped in rice starch and sun-dried.
kanjeevaram sarees had a humble beginning during the pallava reign (275 ce to 897 ce). born in the temple town of kanchipuram, the idea of kanjeevaram was conceived to dress the town’s resident god, lord shiva, during festivals. a cotton veshti (a traditional men’s garment worn in south india), woven by expert weavers from the finest cotton grown in the region, became a sacred offering to the god. as thrones changed hands over time, so did the gods in the temples of the town. under the rule of the chola kings, more and more temples were built in kanchipuram and were dedicated to lord vishnu. the cotton veshti was enhanced with the attachment of a brightly-coloured silk border that was embellished with gold threads. this addition was done by expert saurashtrian weavers, who are believed to have migrated to tamil nadu from saurashtra (present-day gujarat). they created the famous korvai technique of weaving to interlace the border to the body of the fabric. gradually, cotton was replaced with silk, which was purer and more luxurious, and ideal for the worship of  lord vishnu.
