mysore
description
boasting a rich royal heritage that is reinstated by the many monuments that dot its premises, mysuru is nestled at the foothills of the picturesque chamundi hill in karnataka. the city is a melange of the old and the new, its small-town charm well preserved in its palaces and well-laid out gardens. it also holds spirituality close to its heart that is evident from the various temples, churches and mosques here. popularly called the ivory city as most of its buildings are painted in ivory colour, it is an ideal destination for the modern-day traveller – it has excellent infrastructure and plenty of options for accommodation options ranging from the modest to the luxurious, and it offers an abundance of places of historical and natural significance. it also has a host of eateries that serve delicious south indian fares. shopping malls and high-end retail centres sit beside gullies selling authentic mysore silk sarees; thelas (mobile food stalls) serve hot, fresh snacks to hungry travellers, as five-star hotels prepare feasts fit for a king.
a well-planned holiday in mysore will take you to some of the loveliest palaces and nature parks, while its ability and willingness to adopt the new will ensure that your stay is supremely comfortable, with most amenities readily available. besides, the city is home to many yoga and wellness centres that have been set up to cater to the needs of the tourists.
visitors should keep at least three to four days to properly soak up the ambience and warmth of mysore, and be able to visit all the numerous landmark that have put this city close to the top of every traveller's wish list.
for around 150 years, mysore was the capital of karnataka’s wodeyar rulers (1399-1947) who started the magnificent celebration of the ten-day dasara festival. in 2010, the event completed its 400 years. mysore was also ruled by hyder ali and his son tipu sultan in the late 18th century during which period many battles took place with the marathas, nizams and british. during the 4th anglo-mysore war in 1799, tipu sultan was killed and the kingdom was transferred to british allies. legend has it that the name mysore came from 'mahishur', which means the home of mahishasura. despite modernisation, the city has not lost touch with its past and its reflections are still visible.
