puri
description
spirituality and divinity echo through every by-lane of the temple city of puri. a very popular destination of pilgrimage for hindus, the city is sprawled along the long and pristine coastline of the bay of bengal, in the state of odisha. buzzing with devotees, who come here to pay obeisance at the lord jagannath temple, puri is also known worldwide for the larger-than-life celebrations associated with its presiding deity. while one part of the city gets busy celebrating the annual festival of ratha yatra (chariot procession of lord jagannath), that sees lakhs of footfalls, the other part on the outskirts, fringed by beaches and lakes, remains blanketed in relative calm and serenity, making it a hub for nature lovers.
puri’s coastline is home to some of the finest beaches in the country, offering not just spectacular views of sunrises and sunsets but also a taste of adventure activities like water sports and wildlife experiences. the city is a must-visit site for architecture buffs and history lovers, owing to the abundance of gorgeous temples located here. the local fisher-folk add a unique charm to puri, making it a haven for culture and seafood — gastronomic wonders are always close at hand! even though puri is thronged by tourists throughout the year, it becomes most prominent at the time of the nine-day-long ratha yatra festival, held around the months of july-august, when three decorated chariots carry lord jagannath and his sister subhadra and brother balabhadra.
the city is said to have been sanctified by the great saint adi shankaracharya in the 9th century ad, who later established a monastery here, called gobardhan matha. the matha was also home to several saints and philosophers like ramanuja, maraharitirtha, nanak, kabir, chaitanya and ballav bhatta. for centuries, puri has been at the centre of divinity and historical documents prove that from the time of the somavamsis, 11th century ad onwards, all ruling dynasties of the region extended liberal patronage to puri's temples and ashrams.
