raipur
description
the stronghold of several erstwhile flourishing kingdoms, raipur, the capital of chhattisgarh, offers a mesmerising mix of heritage and contemporary living. while the old part of the bustling city stands steeped in history, offering glimpses of the region's rich heritage and culture, its modern counterpart is a glistening example of a smart city.
said to be in existence since the 9th century, raipur has witnessed the rise and fall of several empires. it was once the capital of the haihaya kingdom and a part of it was also ruled by the satawahana kings. the gupta king, samudragupta, ruled the region till 6th century ad, after which the nala kings took over, followed by rulers of the somavanshi dynasty. the famous brick temple, the lakshman temple, is said to have been built by somavanshi queen, vasata. boasting several temples and lakes, raipur represents the natural and cultural diversity of chhattisgarh.
moreover, the modern nuances of the city become relevant in the solar energy park, which uses various renewable forms of energy for running boats and other tourist attractions. the shaheed veer narayan singh international cricket stadium is another prominent tourist attraction that has put the city on the world map.
for shoppers, the well-planned city offers a plethora of options from beautiful bamboo-work product, woodcraft articles to gond paintings and handmade and handprinted kosa silk. with its various handicrafts that are unique and homemade, raipur is one of the best places to buy home décor and utility items.
geographically, raipur is located at the heart of chhattisgarh, and is being developed as a smart city under the government of india's smart cities mission. raipur also offers you a rich experience of the cultural heritage of chhattisgarh. try to time your visit during the various festivals that the city celebrates with much pomp and show to soak in its cultural vibes. a prominent industrial hub, the city is home to several industries like steel, aluminium, coal and power, and one of the largest steel markets in the country.
