shillong
description
colonial-era charm, a landscape of rolling green and pristine mountains come together to bring to life the city of shillong, the capital of meghalaya. its vistas are accentuated by pine trees, streams, waterfalls and lush green parks. with a picturesque location about 1,525 m above sea level, on a plateau surrounded by hills, shillong makes for a pleasant tourist destination throughout the year. the plateau is bound by umiam to the north, the diengiei hills to the northwest and the hills of the assam valley on the northeast.
shillong is frequently referred to as the 'scotland of the east' for its similarity to the scottish highlands in terms of topography and greenery. along with covers of tall pine conifers and pineapple shrubs, the city also boasts trekking trails and natural parks aplenty. a natural wonder that has given the city a spot on the world map is the living root bridges. alive and growing and capable of carrying 50 people at a time, they are a unique experience.
shillong is a city of simple yet unforgettable experiences. from staying in a treehouse to indulging in thrilling activities like trekking, camping, river rafting, rappelling, kayaking, fishing and caving, shillong carves a niche for itself in the hearts of visitors. its quaintness and serenity transform into liveliness and spirited festivities at the time of christmas. with the melodious tunes of gospel music in the backdrop, the city, laden with snow, resembles a picturesque postcard.  home to the khasi, jaintia and garo tribes, the city also has a rich tribal legacy that can be explored by strolling down its lanes. moreover, it is known for its vibrant nightlife and amazing rock music, which is played in almost every lounge and nightclub.  shillong was the capital of british-created assam until 1972. legend has it that it derived its name from a powerful deity, u shyllong. the deity was said to reside on the shillong peak, overlooking the city and guarding it. given the status of a new civil station for the khasi and jaintia hills by the british in the late 19th century, shillong remained the summer capital of eastern bengal and assam for several years. ravaged by an earthquake in 1897 and completely re-built, shillong became meghalaya's capital city in 1972.
