mathura-vrindavan 
shri-krishna-janmabhoomi-temple 
the main pilgrimage spot in mathura is krishna janmabhoomi temple, which is said to have been built around the prison cell where lord krishna was born. it is considered the focal point of the famed legends of lord krishna. one of these legends stipulates that the temple was built by vajranabha, krishna’s great grandson. believed to have been constructed in the 6th century bc, it is one of the most important sites for the devotees of lord krishna, who come and stay here, sometimes for days at a time, to seek the blessings of their beloved god. 
this temple has been renovated several times over the centuries, as the land saw a series of rulers. the current group of temples is the result of a major renovation project that was carried out in the 20th century, and now comprises the impressive keshavdeva temple, with the garbha griha (sanctum sanctorum) located at what is said to be the birthplace of lord krishna, and the bhagavata bhavan. 
the temple complex is approached through a narrow street lined with shops selling religious paraphernalia. there is a small shrine in the complex dedicated to lord krishna. the deity inside the temple is adorned with ornaments. there is also a well within the complex where the jail inmates were supposedly fed water. krishna janmabhoomi temple is also home to paintings depicting scenes from lord krishna's life along with idols of lord krishna and goddess radha. 
the three main temples are a must-visit. keshavdeva temple was built in 1958 by ramkrishna dalmia as a tribute to his mother, jadiadevi dalmia; garbha griha, or sanctum sanctorum, is dedicated to the eight-armed yogmaya (the daughter of nand baba), with a marble pavilion and underground prison cell, demarcating the blessed birth of the lord; finally, bhagavata bhavan, completed in 1982, is dedicated to shrimad bhagavata. 
the bhavan boasts five shrines, with the main shrine boasting six-foot-tall statues of lord krishna and goddess radha. lord balarama, goddess subhadra and lord jagannath sit to the right of the main shrine, with the temple of lord rama, lord lakshmana and goddess sita on the left; lord hanuman finds his place in front of the shrine of lord rama. temples dedicated to goddess durga, as well as a shivling can be visited within the krishna janmabhoomi temple complex. there are other structures also, like a library, an ayurveda bhavan and an international guest house for visitors to explore. 
