thiruvananthapuram
description
snuggled between the arabian sea and the unesco world heritage site of the western ghats, thiruvananthapuram, the capital of the beautiful state of kerala, almost touches the southern tip of india. skirted by backwaters, beaches and dotted with a number of scenic waterfalls and lakes, the city enthralls one with its natural charms.
its serenity and tranquillity, coupled with restful surroundings have made thiruvananthapuram a hub of spas and wellness resorts that provide overall relaxation, detoxification, and ayurveda and yoga facilities. to get more restive and immersive experiences, tourists can stay over at these resorts and enjoy a wholesome treatment, replete with organic food, therapeutic massages, meditations and natural therapies.
the city is also the cultural hub of the state and enjoys a prominent position of boasting dedicated platforms for kathakali, mohiniyattam, koodiyattam and other dance forms of kerala. thiruvananthapuram also celebrates festivals with great gusto, onam (harvest festival) in particular, which is characterised by delicious food, the famed boat race on the backwaters, and a grand parade. the diverse culture of the state is aptly reflected in its cuisine, which is as vibrant as it is delicious. from the 28-course onam sadya to the mouthwatering malabar parotta, the food culture of the city makes for an unforgettable experience.
one of the oldest cities in the country, thiruvananthapuram has been bestowed with a rich legacy of heritage monuments, spectacular architecture evolved under different rulers, spiritual wonders and cultural gems. its colonial name 'trivandrum' is still popularly used. built on seven hills, its name is a culmination of the words “thiru anantha puram”, or the town of the holy anantha, and is christened after ananthan, who is the cosmic serpent said to have a thousand heads, on whose coils lord mahavishnu reclines. the city finds mention in roman and greek literature as well. legend has it that sage parasurama took away kerala from the sea god, varuna, to create 'god’s own land' (kerala).
